# Hexagonal Architecture Maven Archetype

Projects generated by this archetype will have a structure which follows Hexagonal Architecture principles.

By running into this project I assume you already know enough on Hexagonal Architecture theory, therefore I'm not going to explain it
but rather just to explain on how I assembled the modules to make it easy to understand even for people who are not much experienced/familiar with it.

Having this in mind it is necessary to explain key modules and how they are recognized by architecture theory.


### Domain

Module holding all the domain models. This module should be easy to read and understand by anybody who understand
the business logic of the application.

*Does not have any external dependencies!*

### API

This module specifies contracts to be used by business logic module.
In hexagonal architecture world this module is containing all the **output ports**.

*Does not have any external dependencies!*

### Application

This module is the most important one in the entire project as it encapsulates the business logic of the application.

It also follows [Command pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command_pattern) so all use cases are written using UseCase class.

This module imports only `domain` and `api` modules and is not aware of any frameworks or actual implementations of ports (i.e postgresql).

In hexagonal architecture world this module is also known as **input port**.

### API IMPL

This module contains implementations of ports (a.k.a adapters). In our use case, one adapter actually covered two ports due to
simplicity and ability to leverage architecture.

### Rest

This module is basically the one who wires everything together. It has only two purposes:

1. Setting up the application layer and providing the port implementations to it (via ServiceRegistry in our case)
2. To expose application use cases to the users using HTTP protocol (Rest endpoints)

Finally, this module is the one that is exposed to the users.